veganism  is not just a diet it's a revolutionary  way of living it is completely  antithetical  to  [Music]  recorded history you know it's it is  something very radical  and  i had to  be honest with myself  in  deciding that i'm not going to live as a  radical i'm not going to live as a  revolutionary  i want to say  that i completely  agree with the vegan message  [Music]  i have no issues with the diet  nutritionally  or  practically it's a perfectly fine way to  live  i was a vegan  for  almost four years  and it's not hard it's not difficult  [Music]  but  [Music]  you know i got into veganism because  i thought it was  the thing to do  if you want to  change the world the better environment  and the reason i stopped is because  it wasn't the diet itself  nutritionally but the diet socially  the future challenges i would face  in finding a wife who was vegan  in raising  children as vegans  all the conflict that would occur  because of that that i would have to  make  because of my commitment to veganism  it became  very unappealing and then when i thought  about that  you know the prospect of living  as an activist  for this cause  i realized i didn't  i didn't  want to spend my life that way i don't  think people in general are evil i think  people just follow  [Music]  follow  [Music]  the trends  follow the traditions of their culture  of their society  and  i include myself obviously  in that category over time  as  you go on being a vegan in your life  over time it will socially  make you  [Music]  crazy  it'll make you  hate everyone around you  it'll make you hate  your country  and  the way people just don't care about  anything  that you care about  everywhere you go every restaurant you  go to  [Music]  every friend's house you go to unless  they happen to be vegan it will  and you will  think  terrible things about the people  that you come into contact with you'll  think tell the things about your  siblings and your parents and your  grandparents  everything  you know  i am choosing to  live  i'm choosing to do as romans do do as  americans as westerners as really every  population does for maybe a few  minority populations in india who live  strictly vegetarian  living as a vegan is  a sign of advanced morality of  incredible  attention to detail and incredible  attention to  [Music]  you know  lives that people really don't consider  to be worth anything with the lives of  cows chickens and perries or whatever  but i do view veganism as basically  doomed  so yeah i didn't want to live  for a lifestyle or a movement that i  thought was due  and so i stopped  i am consciously rejecting veganism and  its ideas because i think it is due  [Music]  because  i don't care much for  [Music]  symbolic moral  victories  and it's like something you do when  you're enthusiastic about the prospect  for change in that respect  you know when it comes to the  environment animal welfare  stuff like that  but  as the years went on  it just became clear that this was not  anything more than a symbolic gesture  and  i'm not one for  symbolic gestures i want  um  change  in the world not just one  one guy  you know  living  in his own eccentric way by refusing to  eat meat dairy  eggs etc  [Music]  we talk about suffering  in a very strange way in our culture in  this area when you say  suffering the first image that comes to  mind is probably torture  interrogation and then maybe  the secondary meaning of the word is as  somewhat snide and insincere use  in a certain kind of turn of phrase like  suffering for his art  you know  the pursuit  of political change  involves  suffering  and not just  a little bit  of suffering and guys  i rarely talk  about the history of science or the  philosophy of science on this channel  but in its way  scientific progress  technological progress  if you read the biographies and  autobiographies of the men and women who  made it happen you'll start to  appreciate that it involves suffering as  well  in a very sincere sense  scientists and researchers they also are  people  who have to suffer for their art when  you look at  the vegan movement  as it is today  and then you look at the history of  different movements that have sought  each in their own way  to fundamentally and profoundly change  the world to ethically and politically  transform the daily norm for the human  race  what i have to ask you is  who  has  suffered less and yet when you think of  suffering you may immediately think of  war  explosions torture  physically real suffering and obvious  ways but you know what  when you think about the abolition of  slavery  yes some people  were members of a movement  some people were members of a salon some  people were members of a lobbying  committee you know they worked with  lawyers and lobbyists in our terms you  know  and some people  were all alone  there's a different kind of suffering  in that isolation  some people grew up  completely surrounded by slavery and the  excuses made for slavery  they were never part of any movement and  they had to make the decision  as isolated individuals that they were  not going to support that institution  they were going to do something  to oppose it  to overturn it to open up the road to a  better future to a better tomorrow  for us all i read a few pages of an  autobiography i i didn't read that much  because it was quite boring  autobiography of a black woman  who in the days of slavery was raised as  a sort of experiment  by white people  who felt powerless in opposing slavery  and decided that they would raise  some black children as if they were  white with all the benefits of education  and just kind of food shelter and  clothing and they would see if it were  possible in fact for black people to be  intellectually equal to white people  hashtag spoilers  this woman in her autobiography was  describing that when she first started  publishing articles you know later she  moved on to writing and publishing books  the most common response  was of  denial was of white people claiming that  this was  impossible white people insisted because  they needed it for their own uh  sense of moral certainty  they needed to believe that black people  were incapable of this kind of  intellectual development area edition  and capable of responding to education  that black people were by their  biological nature  doomed to be nothing more than beasts of  burden exploited by the slave system the  most common response was of white people  insisting no that's impossible  it must be that one of these pious white  christians some preacher is you know  ghost writing her material and then  she's pretending it's hers and as i  recall some kind of  visit from a journalist was arranged  like somebody came to independently  verify that yes she could read and she  could write that she was the person  producing these these articles okay you  might think it's symbolic you might  think it doesn't matter at all for one  family of white people to adopt and  raise you know one or two black children  as their own and to treat them as equal  and say hey within our tiny little  society within the society of this  household this family we're going to  treat black people as equal to whites  and we're going to prove that it can be  done on that smallest scale one man one  woman  one child and you know what i have to  say to you i think that was one of the  most powerful political gestures anyone  ever could have accomplished in the  struggle  against slavery  this guy  while he was a vegan  he may have been one of the most  brilliant and insightful  people in the movement  i've spent so many years  talking to [ __ ] idiots who are  leaders in this movement people  people who have had  money and fame and privilege handed to  them by the vegan movement people who  never thought it through as much as this  guy  took her dead so it took her  i don't flatter anyone and i don't set  up my criticism of other people by  saying you know five or six  complementary things to give sort of  flattering context to it when i stick  the knife in and tell them what a  [ __ ] idiot they are i don't play that  way all right i can say sincerely took  her you were involved in the vegan  movement for four years well guess what  you had more insight into the movement  more understanding you seem to really be  much more brilliant  than people who are in the movement for  20 years  40 years and who are still [ __ ]  sleepwalking  all right you obviously understood the  strengths and weaknesses of veganism far  better  than some of the most  influential players in the game ever  have or ever will so i'm i'm sorry to  see you go  and your cynicism  the movement needs it the movement  doesn't need more bikini models  movement doesn't need more  bodybuilders you know it needs  more people like you it needs more  people who can point out what's wrong  and what's hopeless  about the vegan movement but your  problem is tucker  you appear to be a computer programmer  and you seem to be a victim of a problem  many computer programmers have which is  that you think  that by understanding a problem in  principle  you understand it absolutely  and with social and political problems  it's not enough to understand rules it's  not enough to understand generalizations  principles you have to understand a  whole constellation of mutually  contradictory and contrasting examples  all right you say  that one man alone can't change the  world that just one person  being vegan is merely  symbolic okay  one person can  make a difference  in opposing  slavery  all right one person did  [Music]  with nothing but a pen  with nothing but a pen and a piece of  paper  frankly no particular literary talent  the quality of his writing is abysmal  right voltaire changed the world  and he challenged one of the most cruel  one of the most barbaric but also one of  the most profitable  industries in the world when he took on  slavery  with nothing but satire here's what i  want to ask you  if you had never met anyone who was  vegan before in your [ __ ] life if you  were completely alone if you didn't even  really have the concept of veganism or  the word do you think  you could be brilliant enough to figure  it out  do you think you could take a look at  how the slaughterhouses operate the  ecological consequences the evidence  whatever you want to say do you think  you could put the pieces together  without ever having met a vegan without  ever having heard the word without  knowing any of the propaganda do you  think that you could come to the  conclusion that you alone  should do what those people did  in their isolated desperate stand taking  a stand  against  slavery not being part of an  abolitionist movement not having  an organization or money behind you and  not even having a social circle of 10 to  20 cheerleaders to pat you on the back  or make you feel  good about yourself do you think you  could be a vegan  if veganism didn't exist  if it never had existed and you were  starting from a blank sheet of paper  well my answer to you is yes you can  and a guy like you you can do better  than gary yourofsky ever did you can do  better than gary francione ever did  you can do better  than all the [ __ ] artists who have  milked this movement for money and fame  and in 2022  the game ain't over yet  you  still  can  you